hi renee
sarah oh good can you help me
sure thank you take this red paper
okay what are you doing
i'm putting up decorations for lunar new
year
i don't know anything about lunar new
how do you celebrate it well on lunar
new year's eve
families get together then
they eat a big meal what do you eat
we eat chicken fish
noodles and dumplings and
parents give red envelopes to their
children
red envelopes the envelopes have money
inside
cool oh we also wear new clothes
look at my cheap house it is from my mom
it's really pretty
how do you say that word again
pow
is a traditional chinese dress lunar new
year
sounds interesting i can write about it
for the newspaper great
write about the diner too why
this month the diner has a lunar new
year menu
we are serving delicious chinese food
all month
okay i can write about the diner
but i want a red envelope
first
you look great honey what's the occasion
very funny why are you wearing running
shorts
tonight's lunar new year's eve did you
forget
no we're having dinner with my family
i don't want to go well we have to go
change your clothes i put your new
clothes in your bag
honey why am i wearing this
i feel silly i like to wear traditional
chinese clothes for lunar new year we'll
be a hit at dinner
fine i'm not too excited about seeing my
brother
last lunar new year he kept talking
about his money
i understand but he's family
i know let's go
happy lunar new year
i have a lot of work to do what are you
working on
i'm writing a column about lunar new
year
the date of lunar new year changes every
year did you know that
yes it follows the lunar calendar
that's right lunar new year isn't just a
chinese holiday
did you know that many other asian
countries
also celebrate new year's on the same
day
yes max how do you know all this
when i cook foods from different
countries i like to learn
about the culture too i love reading
about other cultures and foods cool
chinese called their new year chonjiye
and koreans call theirs and vietnamese
call it pet
but i don't know much about their
traditions do you
i know some traditions do all three
holidays have the same traditions
they have similar traditions in all
three countries
people eat a big meal with their
families cool tradition
so what are some of the differences
the food is different koreans enjoy
rice cake soup vietnamese eats sticky
rice
with meat it's wrapped in leaves
i want to try to make that let's stop
talking about food i'm getting hungry
i'll cook some new year's food for us
betty picks up a stuffed rat she gives
the rat to sarah
because it's the year of the rat
sarah has a gift for betty too
betty is happy but a little confused
when she sees the gift she isn't sure
what the gift is
thanks uh what is it
it's a chinese paper lantern
it's flat now pick up the top and it
opens up
wow where did you get this lantern
in chicago's chinatown i went there with
my brother last night
chicago that's far
you must have driven a long time
it took us two hours it's okay
we had fun well that's good
we ate a lunar new year's eve dinner in
chinatown
i've always wanted to go to chinatown
you should go there will be a lunar
new year parade on saturday max and i
are going will there be firecrackers
yes do you want to go okay
i'm sure we can find the best chinese
food there
i don't think so i think
max cooks the best chinese food
renee listens to them they are talking
about
max's daily special simon doesn't like
it
max isn't happy about that he loves his
food
renee smiles she walks over to max
and simon what's wrong voice
simon can't appreciate good food
i can appreciate good food
i just don't want this food
what's wrong with it simon well
it's strange it is
yes what's so strange about it simon
it's
slimy and it smells a little strange
too
it smells okay to me simon simon
just try it it tastes really good
but simon come on
one bite can't hurt you and
you may really like it
oh all right
hey this is really good
see my food is good yes it
is renee bring me another plate of this
i love it okay honey coming right up
hi sarah how was school great
we're doing presentations on world
festivals
my presentation is next week which
festival will you talk about
the winter carnival in quebec
i can make snow cones for everyone great
idea
i can help you or you can present
australia day
and talk about the cockroach races i can
help you
i found some cockroaches
ben you brought cockroaches into our
house sarah they're
safe in the box don't worry
when is this winter carnival in quebec
in february it's the biggest winter
carnival in the world
there are many cultural events and
they have a night parade we should go
no thanks i'll stay with my new friends
maybe you can visit this winter carnival
one day
bring lots of warm clothes now
let's enjoy some snow cones
great job you are ready for your
presentation
i can see that you did a lot of research
yeah well done so
where are our snow cones ben i'm just
practicing
fine let's have snow cones at our small
town festival what festival
ben wants to have a small town festival
what do you think i think that's a great
idea we do have our own culture here
we can have all kinds of events we can
have
a fast talking contest betty would win
you're right i can dance
and i can hold cockroach races
what i have my box of cockroaches
right here ben
a restaurant is not the best place for
those
and why do you have them they're for the
cockroach races
you did say we could have all
kinds of events that's true
it would be an interesting way to
celebrate
small town how many cockroaches are in
there
six do you want to see them no
one two three four
five uh-oh
one is missing
there's my beautiful junior reporter
hi betty there's something
different about you dear
i know your hair is a different color
no hmm
[Music]
are you taller no betty
i'm the same old me well
you look wonderful thanks betty
so do you have any assignments for me
yes i do i need a writer for my
new travel column and are you
asking me to write it yes
you're an excellent writer you'll do a
good job
thanks betty so what's my first
column about for your first column
i want you to write about dubai city
dubai city where is that
it's a city in the middle east are there
a lot of
interesting things in dubai city
there are for example they have a place
to go
skiing inside
really fun yes
and right now workers are building the
bird to buy
that's the tallest building in the world
great i'll be sure to write about that
good can you finish this assignment by
thursday i'll do my best
excellent i can't wait to read it
betty is in the post office
she picks up a big bag it's
very heavy there are a lot of letters
and packages
inside the bag simon smiles
he is very excited about his package
he wants it now betty looks inside the
bag
i am looking i am looking for
a package it is not a big package
okay is your name
on the box or is renee's name on the box
my name is on there simon way
hmm that is strange i don't see
any mail for you really are you sure
oh here it is
all right wait
this isn't my package it's for simon
monroe oh sorry
well your package isn't in this bag
let me look in the back
[Music]
here's a magazine for renee
but i don't see a package it's here
i'm sure sorry i can't find it
what's in the package oh
uh nothing special
sorry simon your package is not here
the mail is slow sometimes
okay another mail truck will come this
afternoon
come back after four really
thanks betty you're a good mailman
i'm not a mailman simon
i'm a postal worker
oh right sorry
well you're a great postal worker
thanks simon i enjoy helping
people just last week
i sorry i have to go now
see you later
hey honey
[Applause]
did you go to the post office was your
package there
yes i went but my package wasn't there
yet
too bad do you want to eat lunch here
yes i'll go back to the post office
if i have time this afternoon good
i have some cards to mail
can i give them to you sure
hey these cards don't have any envelopes
or stamps
i know i don't have any can you buy some
envelopes and stamps for me dear
okay how much
are stamps now they're 41 cents each
i'm sorry about your package maybe
it'll be there when you go back what
package oh
nothing it's not important
it's just something fun something fun
what is it
when simon gets it he'll show you okay
i like getting packages and letters my
friend
writes a letter to me every month
why don't you use email no way
i like finding letters in my mailbox
hey betty we aren't open yet
that's okay i just have a message for
simon
i found your package great
where is it in alaska
what why the sender
sent it to the wrong address
the post office tracked your package
honey i'll call girls exercise today
about your dvds dvds
girls exercise
i ordered some girls exercise dvds
they have great exercises for my back
simon is embarrassed because the dvds
are for
women the exercises work for men too
it's okay simon i use girls exercise
too really yes
we can exercise together
sarah how are you
how's your boyfriend betty you know i
don't
have a boyfriend i know but you will
someday sorry
i asked too many personal questions i
don't mind
guess what i just started a blog
about life in small town great
do you write about me of course
i have to write about our town's post
mistress
and the editor of our town newspaper
that's right hi girls
phew my favorite salesman
what are you selling today well you know
whenever i
come to town i always bring something
interesting we know
well today is no different
here a book
open it
hey there are no pages
in this book that's right
you don't read this book you keep things
in it no thanks
you someday
you'll buy something from me betty
maybe
number four smoothly smoothly
smoothly okay smoothie is the mixture of
fruits
and ice cream or milk smoothie
smoothie number five milkshake
milkshake milkshake is the mixture of
ice cream
or milk with flavor of fruits okay and
then we shake them
until it's full of bubbles milkshake
milkshake number six milk
milk number seven
cocktail cork tail tale american english
long or cocktail british english
cocktail cocktail
cocktail is a mixture of fruit juice
and a kind of strong alcoholic drinks
okay cocktail eight coke
or cola coke or cola do you know
coca-cola
okay the same color
soda soda beer
beer lemonade lemonade is just like
lemon juice okay lemonade mineral
water mineral water is the natural water
mineral water hot chocolate hot
chocolate
people like to drink this one in the
winter because it's
hard it's warm okay hot chocolate
wine wine champagne
champagne remember this is ch but we
don't pronounce like
chicken okay this is
champagne champagne we usually drink
champagne for the new year coconut water
coconut water okay
so one more time smoothly smooth the
milkshake milkshake milk
milk cocktail cocktail
coke color soda
beer lemonade
lemonade mineral water
mineral water hot chocolate
hot chocolate wine wine
champagne champagne coconut
water coconut water
now let's go to some questions and
answers what kind of beverage
beverage the same meaning with drink
okay
what kind of beverage do you usually
drink
drink i usually drink
milk i usually drink milk do you know
how to make
lemonade that means can you make
lemonade
do you know how to make lemonade yes
of course i do of course they do it's
very easy to make
it's very easy to make of course i do
it's very easy to make
sorry i don't know sorry i don't know
is this
the is this cocktail good is this
cocktail good
yes it is link them together yesterdays
very tasty yesterday is very tasty
not really it's okay not really it's
okay